BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding

Abstract

We introduce a new language representation model called BERT, which stands for Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers. Unlike recent language representation models, BERT is designed to pretrain deep bidirectional representations from unlabeled text by jointly conditioning on both left and right context in all layers. As a result, the pre-trained BERT model can be fine-tuned with just one additional output layer to create state-of-the-art models for a wide range of tasks, such as question answering and language inference, without substantial task-specific architecture modifications.

BERT is conceptually simple and empirically powerful. It obtains new state-of-the-art results on eleven natural language processing tasks, including pushing the GLUE score to 80.5% (7.7% point absolute improvement), MultiNLI accuracy to 86.7% (4.6% absolute improvement), SQuAD v1.1 question answering Test F1 to 93.2 (1.5 point absolute improvement) and SQuAD v2.0 Test F1 to 83.1 (5.1 point absolute improvement).

1 Introduction

Language model pre-training has been shown to be effective for improving many natural language processing tasks. These include sentence-level tasks such as natural language inference and paraphrasing, which aim to predict the relationships between sentences by analyzing them holistically, as well as token-level tasks such as named entity recognition and question answering, where models are required to produce fine-grained output at the token level.

There are two existing strategies for applying pre-trained language representations to downstream tasks: feature-based and fine-tuning. The feature-based approach, such as ELMo, uses task-specific architectures that include the pre-trained representations as additional features. The fine-tuning approach, such as the Generative Pre-trained Transformer (OpenAI GPT), introduces minimal task-specific parameters, and is trained on the downstream tasks by simply fine-tuning all pretrained parameters. The two approaches share the same objective function during pre-training, where they use unidirectional language models to learn general language representations.

We argue that current techniques severely restrict the power of the pre-trained representations, especially for the fine-tuning approaches. The major limitation is that standard language models are unidirectional, and this limits the choice of architectures that can be used during pre-training. For example, in OpenAI GPT, the authors use a left-to-right architecture, where every token can only attend to previous tokens in the self-attention layers of the Transformer. Such restrictions are sub-optimal for sentence-level tasks, and could be very harmful when applying fine-tuning based approaches to token-level tasks such as question answering, where it is crucial to incorporate context from both directions.

2 BERT

2.1 Model Architecture

BERT's model architecture is a multi-layer bidirectional Transformer encoder based on the original implementation described in Vaswani et al. (2017). In this work, we denote the number of layers (i.e., Transformer blocks) as L, the hidden size as H, and the number of self-attention heads as A. We primarily report results on two model sizes: BERT_BASE (L=12, H=768, A=12, Total Parameters=110M) and BERT_LARGE (L=24, H=1024, A=16, Total Parameters=340M).

2.2 Pre-training BERT

Unlike Peters et al., 2018a and Radford et al., 2018, we do not use traditional left-to-right or right-to-left language models to pre-train BERT. Instead, we pre-train BERT using two unsupervised tasks.

Task 1: Masked LM. In order to train a deep bidirectional representation, we simply mask some percentage of the input tokens at random, and then predict those masked tokens. We refer to this procedure as a "masked LM" (MLM), although it is often referred to as a Cloze task in the literature. In this case, the final hidden vectors corresponding to the mask tokens are fed into an output softmax over the vocabulary. In all of our experiments, we mask 15% of all WordPiece tokens in each sequence at random.

Task 2: Next Sentence Prediction (NSP). Many important downstream tasks such as Question Answering (QA) and Natural Language Inference (NLI) are based on understanding the relationship between two sentences, which is not directly captured by language modeling. In order to train a model that understands sentence relationships, we pre-train for a binarized next sentence prediction task that can be trivially generated from any monolingual corpus.

3 Experiments

BERT achieves state of the art results on 11 NLP benchmarks. On the General Language Understanding Evaluation (GLUE) benchmark, BERT_LARGE obtains a score of 80.5, improving upon the previous best by 7.7 percentage points. On the SQuAD v1.1 question answering task, BERT_LARGE achieves 93.2% F1, outperforming the previous best ensemble by 1.5 points. On the Named Entity Recognition (NER) task using the CoNLL-2003 dataset, BERT achieves 92.8% F1 on the test set. The results demonstrate that BERT's bidirectional pre-training gives it a significant advantage over previously trained unidirectional models.
